snippets
========

## Snippets

LEGAL

For the duration of this copyright statement, 'this software', 'snippets', and
'Snippets' are taken to mean all files distributed with this product,
and the arrangement and other original work related to this product.

License

This software is copyright 2001 by Jonathan Hayward, and licensed to
you under the MIT License.

Warrantee

Jonathan Hayward makes no warranties, express or implied, regarding
this software.	In no event shall Jonathan Hayward be liable for any
consequential, special, incidental, or indirect damages of any kind arising
out of the license of, use of, or inability to use any software or product
covered under this license, even if Jonathan Hayward has been advised of
the possibility of such damages.  This limitation of liability and risks
is reflected in the price of this software.

PURPOSE

Snippets is a versatile CGI script that allows administrators to turn a large
amount of static content into a small amount of dynamic content, and users to
have an editable quote of the day.  It's a cross between a fortune cookie
program and a wiki.  Snippets can be used for much more than memorable quotes,
though; Snippets can be used to show people, or remind them of:

* Jokes

* Quotes

* Recipes

* Websites to visit

* Friends to write/e-mail/call

* Long-term to do items

* Places to visit

* Books to read

* Favorite pictures

* Etc.

Go ahead and play around with it; see what it can do.

INSTALLATION AND SETUP

Basics

* Run "./install" and answer the questions provided.  This will run a
  simplified Unix install script and should create a working, out-of-the-box
  installation when supplied appropriate values.

* See USAGE below if you need help using Snippets.

* The install script is not meant to fully customize Snippets, only to get it
  running.  See Customization below for further information on how to adjust
  Snippets to meet your needs.

* Security-conscious administrators should read Security below.

Customization

The privacy policy at <the public snippets HTML directory>/privacy.html
should be edited to fit your site's privacy policy.

The configuration file at
<the private snippets data directory>/general/config is carefully commented
and can be adjusted to control how the script works.

The account <the server administrator e-mail you specify>, initially given
password <the password generated by the install script> is a special account in
that it has a page of administrative controls.  Many of these controls should
explain themselves, but there are some non-obvious ways to use them.

The beginning and ending of a page are read from
<the private snippets data directory>/general/header and
<the private snippets data directory>/general/footer respectively.
Those files may be edited to better meet your site's needs.

The images used for buttons and for backgrounds are found in
<the public snippets HTML directory> and may be replaced with
images tailored to your site's needs.

The background provided is a free background from Kapocs Web Design Services;
other backgrounds of similar appearance are available at
http://kapocs.hypermart.net/graphics/bground/bground.html.

If you have guest access enabled and wish to customize what the guest may see,
log in, go to the administrative controls, and switch user to guest.  Then you
will be able to customize what guests see.

There is a special account named "template"; new users will be able to copy
data from that account into their own.  This would be a good place to provide
available content to users.

Security

The present release of Snippets is experimental, and should be treated as such
by security-conscious administrators.  If you examine the code and discover a
vulnerability that could compromise the server, please contact the author at
jshayward@pobox.com.

The script is intended to have light security and not to compromise a server,
but it is not intended to store credit card numbers or other sensitive
information.

The default installation sets <the private snippets data directory> and
contents to mode 777.  Administrators are encouraged to set directory and
contents to mode 700, owned by the effective user ID that Snippets will be
running under.

USAGE

Snippets is designed to be run as a straightforward web application, with much
administrative activity performed on-web.  Rather than trying to explain how to
use it, I simply encourage you to explore.

NOTES

Programmer's notes

The file format for snippets is extremely simple; it should be straightforward
to write programs that will import other content (i.e. fortune cookie messages)
into it.

Bugs

For security-related concerns, see Security above.

The present implementation is vulnerable to loss of changes if two wiki users
edit the same topic.

MISCELLANEOUS

Contact

The author can be contacted at jshayward@pobox.com.
